-08 Configuring Basic Switch Management
****************************************
	Covers the following exam topics:
		5.0 Infrastructure Management
		5.4 Configure, verify and troubleshoot basic device hardening
		5.4a Local authentication
		5.4b Secure password
		5.4c Access to device
		5.4c.2 Telnet / SSH
		
The work related to what a networking device does can be broken into 3 broad categories;
	
	- Data plane: the work a switch does to forward frames generated by the devices 
	  connected to the switch. It is the main purpose of the switch.
	  
	- Control plane: the configuration and processes that control & change the choices
	  made by the switch's data plane. The network engineer can control which 
	  interfaces are enabled and disable, which ports run at which speed, how the 
	  Spanning Tree Protocol blocks redundant links hence preventing loops etc.
	  
	- Management plane: the topic covered in this chapter; deals with managing the
	  device rather than controlling it. For instance, login securities, Configure 
	  IPv4 settings on a switch so that it can be remotely managed.
	  
	  The first section of this chapter works through the config of different kinds
	  of login security. 
	  
	  The second section shows how to configure IPv4 settings on a switch so that it
	  can be remotely managed.
	  
	  The last short section then explains a few practical matters that make your life
	  in a lab a little easier.
	  
Do I Know This Already?
************************

1.	Imagine you have configured the **enable secret** command, followed by the 
	**enable password** command, from the console. You log out of the switch 
	and log back in at the console. Which command defines the password that you had
	to enter to access privileged mode?
	
	 A. enable password
	 B. enable secret
	 C. Neither
	 D. The password command, if it configured
	 
	 >> enable secret
	 
2.	An engineer wants to set up simple password protection with no usernames for some
	switches in a lab, for the purpose of keeping curious co-workers from loggin into
	the lab switches from their desktops. Which of the following commands would be a useful
	part of that configuration?
	
	 A. A **login** vty mode subcommand
	 B. A **password** password console subcommand
	 C. A **login local** vty subcommand
	 D. A **transport input ssh** vty subcommand
	 
	 >> A **login** vty mode subcommand
		The co-workers will be logging in remotely into the switch using either Telnet
		or SSH.
		Therefore, in line configuration of the vty mode, an engineer will set up a
		login commandthat will require a password with no username for remotely logged
		in users.
	 
3.	 An engineer formerly configured a Cisco 2960 switch to allow Telnet access so that the
	switch expected a password of **mypassword** from the Telnet user. The engineer then 
	changed the configuration to support Secure Shell. Which of the following commands could
	have been part of the new configuration? (Choose 2 answer)
	
	 A. A **username** name **secret** password vty mode subcommand.
	 B. A **username** name **secret** password global mode configuration command.
	 C. A **login local** vty mode subcommand
	 D. A **transport input ssh** global configuration command
	 
	 >> A **transport input ssh** global configuration command.
		This is afer enabling ssh protocol on the switch in its vty lines using the 
		following steps:
			
			SW1# configure terminal
			SW1(config)# ip domain-name example.com
			SW1(config)# crypto key generate rsa modulus 1024
			% Generating 1024 bit RSA keys, keys will be non-exportable..
			[OK] (elapsed time was 4 seconds)
			SW1(config)# ip ssh version 2
			SW1(config)# line vty 0 15
			SW1(config-line)# login local
			SW1(config-line)# transport input ssh
			SW!(config-line)# exit
			SW1(config)# username curtis secret cisco
			SW1(config)# ^Z
			SW1#
	 
4.	An engineer's desktop PC connects to a switch at the main site. A router at the the main
	site connects to each branch office through a serial link, with one small router and switch
	at each branch. Which of the following commands must be configured on the branch office 
	switches, in the listed configuration mode, to allow the engineer to telnet to the branch office
	switches? (Choose 3 answers)
	
	 A. The **ip address** command in interface configuration mode
	 B. The **ip address** command in global configuration mode
	 C. The **ip default-gateway** command VLAN configuration mode
	 D. The **ip default-gateway** command in global configuration mode
	 E. The **password** command in console line configuration mode
	 F. The **password** command in vty line configuration mode.
	 
	 >>The **ip default-gateway** command in global configuration mode.
		When configuring IPv4 address and mask on a switch; on its special NIC-like VLAN
		interface, there must be a default gateway to the router in order for the switch
		to be able to communicate outside its VLAN interface.
		Steps:
		
		SW1# conf term
		SW1#(config) interface vlan 1
		SW1(config-if)# ip address 192.168.1.200 255.255.255.0
		SW1(config-if)# no shutdown
		SW1(config-if)# exit
		SW1(config)# ip default-gateway 192.168.1.1
		
		
	 
5.	A layer 2 switch configuration places all its physical ports into VLAN 2. The IP addressing
	plan shows that address 172.16.2.250 (with mask 255.255.255.0) is reserved for use by this
	new LAN switch and that 172.16.2.254 is already configured on the router connected to that 
	same VLAN. The switch neeeds to support SSH connections into the switch from any subnet in
	the network. Which of the following commands are part of the required  configuration in this
	case? (Choose 2 answers)
	
	  A. The **ip address 172.16.2.250 255.255.255.0** command in interface vlan 1 configuration
	     mode.
	  B. The **ip address 172.16.2.250 255.255.255.0** command in interface vlan 2 configuration
	      mode.
	      
	  C. The **ip default-gateway 172.16.2.254** command in global configuration mode.
	  D. The switch cannot support SSH because all its ports connect to VLAN2, and the IP address
	     must be configure on interface VLAN 1.
	     
	     >> The **ip address 172.16.2.250 255.255.255.0** command in interface vlan 2 
	     configuration
	     >> The **ip default-gateway 172.16.2.254** command in global configuration mode
	     
	     
	     
6.	 Which of the following line subcommands tells a switch to wait until a show command's output
	has completed before displaying log messages on the screen?
	
	 A. **login synchronous**
	 B. **no ip domain-lookup**
	 C. **exec-timeout 0 0**
	 D. **history size 15**
	 	  
	 >> **login synchronous**
	 	  
	1 B 2 A 3 B, C 4 A, D, F 5 B, C 6 A
	
	By the end of this chapter I will have answers to this questions.
	
	
Foundation topics
******************

Securing the switch CLI
************************

	By default, a Cisco Catalyst switch allows anyone to connect to the console port,
	access user mode and then move on to enable and config modes without any kind of 
	security. 
	 
	However, everyone needs to operate switches remotely, and the first step in that process
	is to secure the switch so that only appropriate users can access the switch command-line
	interface.
	
	Securing the command line includes protecting the access to **enable mode**, because from
	enable mode, an attacker could reload the switch or change configuration.
	
	All remote access and mgmt protocols require that the switch IP configuration to be
	completed and working. A switch's IP config has nothing to do with how a layer 2 switch
	forwards Ethernet frames, but to Telnet and Secure Shell to a switch. The switch needs to
	be configured with an IP address.
	
	The following login security topics will be covered:
	
	- Securing user mode and privilege mode with simple passwords
	
	- Securing user mode access with local usernames
	
	- Securing user mode access with external authentication servers
	
	- Securing remote access with Secure Shell(ssh)
	
	
Securing user mode and privilege mode with simple passwords
***********************************************************

	Although the default switch configuration allows a **console user** to move into user mode
	and then privilege mode with no passwords required, unsurprisingly, the default settings 
	prevent Telnet an SSH users from even accessing user mode.
	
	However, you need to add some config to enable you to sit at your desk and log into all the
	switches in the LAN. In addition, of course you should not allow just anyone to login and
	change the  configs, so some type of secure login should be used.
	
	The first option most people learn to secure access to user mode, one best used in the lab
	rather than in production, is a simle shared password; using a password only with no username
	with one password for console users and another for Telnet users.
	
	Console users must supply **console password** as configured in line configuration mode.
	Telnet users must supply **Telnet password** , also called vty password. because the 
	configuration sits in vty line configuration mode.
	
	To configure the shared passwords for the console, Telnet and enable mode, you need to 
	configure several commands:
	
	-------------------------------------------
	line console 0
	login
	password hope
	
	---------------------------------------------
	line vty 0 15
	login password love
	
	----------------------------------------------
	enable secret faith
	
	-----------------------------------------------
	
	For the console and vty password config, the config sets the password based on the context:
	console mode for the console(line cons 0) and vty line config for Telnet password(line vty 0 15)
	Then inside the console & vty mode, the 2 commands are:
	
	**login**: Tells the IOS to enable the use of a simple shared password(with no username)
	on this line(con / vty).
	**password password -value**: Defines the actual password used on the console or vty.
	
	The enable password below them, applies to all users no matter whether they connect to user mode
	via the console, Telnet or otherwise... ssh
	

Securing User mode access with local usernames and passwords
*************************************************************
	Cisco switches support 2 other login security methods that both use per-username/password
	pair instead of a shared password with no username; one method referred to as **local usernames**
	and passwords, configures the username/password pairs localy- ie, within the switch's config.
	
	Switches support this local username/password option for the console, vty and Telnet but do not
	replace the enable password used to reach enable mode.
	
	The following checklist details commands to configure local username login:
	
	Step1. Use the **username __name__ secret __password__** global configuration command to add 
	one or more username/password pairs on the local switch.
	
	Step2. Configure the console to use locally configured username/password pairs:
	 A. Use the **line con 0** command to enter console config mode.
	    For instance:
username wendel secret odom
username chris secret youdda
	 
	 B. Use **login local** subcommand to enable the console to prompt for both the username and 
	    password, checked versus the list of local usernames/passwords.
	    
	 C. (Optional) Use the **no password** subcommand to remove any existing simple shared passwords,
	    just for good housekeeping of the configuration file.
	    
	Step3. Configure Telnet (vty) to use locally configured username/password pairs
	 A. Use the **line vty 0 15** command to enter vty config mode for all 16 vty lines.
	 B. Use the **login local** subcommand to enable the switch to prompt for both the username and
	    password for all inbound Telnet users, checked versus the list of local usernames/passwords
	 C. (Optional) Use the **no password** subcommand to remove any existion simple shared passwords
	    just for good housekeeping of the config file.
	    
	
 Telnet login process after applying local username/password config
SW2(config)# username wendell secret odom
SW2(config)# username curtis secret dorobo1996
SW2(config)# exit
SW2# telnet 10.9.9.19
Trying 10.9.9.19 ... Open

User Access Verification

Username: wendell
Password:
SW1> enable
Password:
SW1# configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
SW1(config)# ^Z
SW1#
*Mar 1 02:00:56.229: %SYS-5-CONFIG_I: Configured
from console by wendell on vty0
(10.9.9.19)

	NB::
	  **username secret** command has an older less-secure cousin, the **username password** 
	  command.

Securing User mode access with External Authentication Servers
**************************************************************
	The end of the example of when using a local username/password config, note that when the user
	exits the configuration mode, the switch generates a log message. If the user logged in with a
	username, the log message identifies that username; note the "wendell" in the log message.
	
	However, using a username/password configured directly on the switch causes some administrative
	headaches. For instance, every switch and router needs the configuration for all users who might
	need to log into the devices. Then when changes need to happen, like an occasional change to the 
	passwords for good security practices, the configuration of all devices must be changed.
	
	
	A better option would be to use tools that allow for central place to securely store all 
	username/password pairs, with tools to revoke users when they leave their current jobs etc..
	
	Cisco switches allow for that to happen using an external server called an Authentication,
	Authorization and Accounting (AAA) server; holding username/password pairs. Typically, they allow
	users to do self service and forced maintenance to their passwords.
	Many production networks use AAA servers for their switches and routers.
	
	The connection between a user and the switch/router uses Telnet or SSH while the connection
	between the switch and the AAA server use either RADIUS or TACAcS+ protocol, both which encrypt
	the passwords as the traverse the network.
	

Secure Remote Access with Secure Shell
***************************************
	SSH prevents man-in-the-middle attack by encryption of all session data.
	
	SSH can use the same login local authentiction method as Telnet, with locally configured
	username and password.
	
	The example below shows one example configuration of what is required to support ssh. It shows
	3 additional commands required to complete the configuration of SSH on the switch.
	
Example of SSH-Specific Configuration

 hostname sw1
 ip domain-name example.com
 ! Next command Uses FQDN "sw1.example.com"
 crypto key generate rsa
 
Local Username Configuration (Like Telent)
 username wendell secret odom
 username chris secret youdda
 !
 line vty 0 15
   login local
   
   
	IOS uses the 3 SSH-Specific configuration commands to create the SSH encryption keys.
	
	SSH servers use the Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) of the switch as input to create that key.
	The term FQDN combines the hostname of a host and its domain name, in this case: the hostname
	and domain name of the switch.
	
	IOS runs an SSH server by default in addition to allowing SSH connection to vty lines by default.
	Note in particular, the **crypto key** command prompts the user for the key modulus: you could 
	also add the parameters **modulus __modulus-value__** to the end of the **crypto key** command.
	
	Example of SSH configuration Process to Match
	
SW1# configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End
with CNTL/Z
!
! Step 1 next, The hostname is already set, but
it is repeated just
! to be obvious about the steps.
!
SW1(config)# hostname SW1
SW1(config)# ip domain-name example.com
SW1(config)# crypto key generate rsa
The name for the keys will be: SW1.example.com
Choose the size of the key modulus in the range 
of 360 to 2048 for your
General Purpose Keys. Choosing a key modulus
greater than 512 may take a few minutes.

How many bits in the modulus [512]: 1024
% Generating 1024 bit RSA keys, keys wil be 
non-exportable...
[OK] (elapsed time was 4 seconds)
SW1(config)#
!
! Optionally, set the SSH version to 2
(only) - preferred
!
SW1(config)# ip ssh version 2
!
! Next, configure the vty lines for local username support, just
like with Telnet
!
SW1(config)# line vty 0 15
SW1(config-line)# login local
SW1(config-line)# exit
!
! Define the local username, just like
with Telnet
!
SW1(config)# username wendell password odom
SW1(config)# username chriss password youddaman
SW1(config)# ^Z
SW1#

	The default supports both SSH and Telnet on the vty lines, however, because Telnet is a security
	risk, you could disable Telnet to enforce a tighter security policy. You could also disable SSH
	support and llow Telnet on the vty lines as well.
	
	To control which protocols a switch supports on its vty lines, use the 
	**transport input {all | none | telnet | ssh}** vty subcommand in vty mode.
	
	**transport input all** or **transport input telnet ssh** : Supports both Telnet and SSH
	**transport input none**: Support neither
	**transport input telent**: Support only telnet
	**transport input ssh**: Support only SSH.
	
	
	The steps below detail the config checklist details of configuring a switch using local
	usernames.
	
	> Config checklist <
	
	Step1. Configure the switch to generate a matched public and private key pair to use for
	encryption:
	  A. If not already configured, use the **hostname __name__** in global configuration mode
	     to configure a hostname for this switch.
	  B. If not already configured, use the **ip domain-name __name__** in global configuration mode
	     to configure a domain name for the switch, completing the switch's FQDN
	  C. Use the **crypto key generate rsa** command in global configuration mode (or the 
	     **crypto key generate rsa modulus __modulus-value__** command to avoid being prompted for the
	     key modulus. Use at least 768-bit key to support SSH version 2.
	
	Step 2. (Optional) Use the **ip ssh version 2** command in global configuration mode to override
	the default of supporting both version 1 and 2, so that only SSHv2 connections are allowed.
	
	Step3. (Optional) If not already configured with the setting you want, configure the vty lines
	to accept SSH and whether to also allow Telnet:
	 A. Use the **transport input ssh** command in vty line configuration mode to allow SSH only.
	 B. Use the **transport input all** command (default) or **transport input telent ssh** command
	 in vty line configuration mode to allow both SSH and Telnet.
	 
	Step4. Use various commands in vty line configuration mode to configure local username login
	authenication as discussed ealier.
	
	NB::
		Cisco router default to transport input none, so that you must add the transport input line
		subcommand to enable Telnet and or SSH into a router.
		
	Commands giving some info abt the status of SSH on switch.
	
	First **show ip ssh** command lists status info abt the SSH server itself.
	The **show ssh** command then list information abt each SSH client currently connected into the
	switch.
	
	The example below shows samples of each, with user Wendell connected to the switch.
	
SW1# show ip ssh
SSH enabed - version 2.0
Authentication timeout: 120 secs; Authentication
retries: 3
SW1# show ssh

Connection Version Mode Encryption Hmac State
Username
0 2.0 IN aes128-cbc hmac-sha1 Session started
wendell
0 2.0 OUT aes128-cbc hmac-sha1 Session started
wendell
%No SSHv1 server connections running.


Enabling IPv4 for Remote Access
************************************
	 To allow for Telnet or SSH access and other IP-based management protocols (for instance
	 Simple Network Management Protocol) to function, the switch needs an IP address as well as
	 a few other related settings.
	 
	 The IP address has nothing to do with how a switch forwards frames: but simply exists to 
	 support overhead management traffic.
	 
	 
Host and Switch IP settings
***************************
	In a PC's perspective, it has a CPU, with the OS running. It has an Ethernet Network Interface 
	card. The OS config includes an IP address associated with the NIC, either configured or learned
	dynamically with DHCP.
	
	A switch uses the same ideas, except that the switch needs to use a virtual NIC inside. Like a 
	PC, a switch has a real CPU, running an OS(IOS). The switch has obviously lots of Ethernet ports,
	but instead of assigning its mgmt IP address to any of those ports, the switch uses a NIC-like
	concept called **switched virtual interface** (SVI), or more commonly, a VLAN interface.
	
	By using interface VLAN 1 for the IP configuration, the switch can then send & receive frames 
	on any of the ports in VLAN 1. By default, all ports in a Cisco switch are assigned to VLAN 1.
	
	A layer 2 Cisco LAN switch often uses a single VLAN interface at a time, although multiple 
	VLAN interfaces can be configured.
	
	Note that you should not try to use a VLAN interface for which there are no physical ports
	asigned to the same VLAN. If you do, the VLAN interface will not reach an up state and the
	switch will not have the physical ability to communicate outside the switch.
	
	NB::
	Some cisco switches can be configured to act as either Layer 2 or Layer3 switch; 
	**multilayer switch**. A Layer 2 switch forwards Ethernet frames, layer 3 switch means that the
	switch can both forward IP packets using the Layer 3 logic and forward Ethernet frames.
	Hoewever, this chapter assumes all switches are layer 2 switches.
	
	Configuring the IP address (& mask) on one VLAN interface allow the switch to send and receive IP
	packets with other hosts in a subnet that exists on that VLAN; however the switch cannot 
	communicate with outside the local subnet without another configuration setting called the
	**default gateway**.
	
	Specifically:
	 To send IP packets to hosts in the same subnet, send them directly.
	 To send IP packets to hosts in a different subnet, send the to the local router, that is, 
	 the default gateway.
	 
	For instance a switch connected to a router: the switch will use an IP address of
	192.168.1.200 as configured for interface VLAN 1. However, to communicate with the Router,
	(the default gateway), to forward IP packets to a host, the Switch has to connect to it.
	
	To make it work, the Switch needs to configure a default gateway setting, pointing to the 
	Router's IP address (192.168.1.1 in this case). NB: both of them use the same subnet mask
	255.255.255.0
	
Configuring IPv4 on a Switch
*****************************
	Switches configure their IPv4 address and mask on this special NIC-like VLAN interface.
	The following steps list the commands used to configure IPv4 on a switch, assuming that the
	IP address is configured to be in VLAN 1.
	
	> config checklist < 
	
	Step1. Use the **interface vlan 1** command in global configuration mode to enter interface
	VLAN 1 config mode.
	
	Step2. Use the **ip address ip-address mask** command in interface configuration mode to 
	assign an IP address and mask.
	
	Step3. Use the **no shutdown** command in interface configuration mode to enable the VLAN 1 
	interface if it is not already configured.
	
	Step4. Add the **ip default-gateway ip-address** command in global configuration mode to
	configure the default gateway.
	
	Step5. (Optional) Add the **ip name-server ip-address1 ip-address2** .. command in global 
	config mode to configure the switch to use Domain Name System (DNS) to resolve names into
	their matching IP address.


 Switch Static IP address Configuration

Emma# configure terminal
Emma(config)# interface vlan 1
Emma(config-if)# ip address 192.168.1.200 255.255.255.0
Emma(config-if)# no shutdown

00:25:07: %LINK-3-UPDOWN: Interface Vlan1,
changes state to up
00:25:08: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protcol on
Interface Vlan1, changed 
state to up

Emma(config-if)# exit
Emman(config)# ip default-gateway 192.168.1.1



Configuring a Switch to learn its IP address with DHCP
*******************************************************
	Basically just tell the switch to use DHCP on the interface, and enable the interfce.
	
	Step1. Enter VLAN 1 configuration mode using the **interface vlan 1** global config command
	and enable the interface using the **no shutdown** command as necessary
	
	Step2. Assign the IP address and mask using the **ip address dhcp** interface command
	
 Example Switch Dynamic IP address Config with DHCP
 
 Emma# configure terminal
 Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
 Emma(config)# interface vlan 1
 Emma(config-if)# ip address dhcp
 Emma(config-if)# no shutdown
 Emma(config-if)# ^Z
 Emma#
 
 00:38:20: %LINK-3_UPDOWN: Interface Vlan1, 
 changed state to up
 00:38:21: %LINEPROTO-5_UPDOWN: Line protocol on
 Inteface Vlan1, changed state to up.
 
 
Verifying IPv4 in a Switch
**************************
	It can be done in several ways.
	First look at the current config using **show running-config** command
	
	Second, you can look at the IP address and mask info using the **show interface vlan x** 
	command, which shows detailed status info abt the VLAN interface in VLAN [x].
	
	Finally if using DHCP, use the **show dhcp lease** command to see the (temporarily) leased IP 
	address and other parameters.
	
	NB::
	 The switch doesn't store DHCP-learned IP configs in the running-config file.
	 
 Example Verifying DHCP-Learned Information on a Switch
 
Emma# show dhcp lease

Temp IP addr: 192.168.1.101 for peer on
Interface: Vlan1
Temp sub net mask: 255.255.255.0
DHCP Lease server: 192.168.1.1, state: 3 Bound
DHCP transaction id: 1966
Lease: 86400 secs, Renewal: 43200 secs, Rebind: 75600 secs
Temp default-gateway add: 192.168.1.1
Next timer fires after: 11:59:45
Retry count: 0 Client-ID: cisco-0019.e86a.6fc0-V11
Hostname: Emma

Emma# show interface vlan 1

Vlan1 is up, line protocol is up
Hardware is EtherSVI, address is 0019.e86a.6fc0
(bia 0019.e86a.6fc0)
Internet address is 192.168.1.101/24
MTU 1500 bytes, BW 1000000 Kbit, DLY 10 usec,
reliability 255/255, txload 1/255, rxload 1/255
! lines omitted for brevity

Emma# show ip default-gateway
192.168.1.1

>> More clarification on configuring dhcp for a switch. 
	  
Miscellaneous settings useful in Lab
*************************************
History buffer commands
-----------------------

	When entering commands from the CLI, the switch saves the last several commands
	in the **history buffer**. As mentioned in **Chapter 6, Using the commandline Interface**, you can use the up arrow or Ctrl + P to move back in the
	history buffer to retrieve a command you entered a few commands ago.
	
-	**show history**  : an **EXEC** command that lists the commands held in the history 
	buffer
	
-	**terminal history size x** : From **EXEC mode**, this command allows a single user
	to set, just for this one login session, the size of his or her history buffer.
	
	**history size x** : A configuration command that from **console or vty line** 
	configuration mode, sets the default number of commands saved in the history buffer
	for the users of the console or vty lines respectively.
	
	
Logging synchronous, exec-timeout and no ip domain-lookup Commands
*******************************************************************
	These next 3 config commands have little in common, other than the fact that they can
	be useful settings to reduce your frustration when using the console of a switch or
	router.
	
	The console automatically receives copies of all unsolicited syslog messages on a
	switch which render important and possibly urgent information, but unfortunately,
	IOS by default displays them at anytime-including right in the middle of the command
	or middle of the output of a **show** command. Could be so annoying
	
	You can simply disable the feature that sends these messages to the console & then
	re-enable the feature later, using the **no logging console** & **logging console**
	global commands.
	
	To configure the IOS to only show syslogs at the end of the output from a show command,
	use the **logging synchronous** console subline command, which basically tells IOS 
	to synchronize the syslog message display with the messages requested using the 
	**show** commands.
	
	Improving user experience by timing out login sessions from the console or when using 
	Telnet or SSH; by default, the switch disconnects console and vty users after 5 min
	of inactivity. The **exec-timeout [minutes seconds]**  line subcommand enables you
	to set the length of that inactivity timer.
	In a lab (but not in production), you might want to use the special value
	of 0 minutes and 0 seconds meaning "never time out".
	
	**no ip domain-lookup** global config command, disables IOS's attempt to resolve the
	hostname into an IP address.
	

Special commands
****************
Login Security commands
---------------------------

line console 0 : Changes the context to console config mode.

line vty 1st-vty last-vty : Changes the context to vty config mode for the range 
of vty lines listed in the command.

login : Console and vty config mode. Tells the IOS to prompt for a password.

password pass-value : Console and vty config mode. Lists the password required 'if the login command (with no params) is configured.

login local : Console and vty config mode. Tells the IOS to prompt for a username
and password, to be checked against locally configured username global config
commands on this switch or router.

username name secret pass-value : Global command. Defines one of possibly 
multiple usernames and associated passwords, used for user auth.

crypto key generate rsa
[modulus 360 - 2048]:    Global command. Creates and stores (in a hidden location
in flash mem) the keys required by SSH.

transport input [telnet|ssh|all|none] : vty line config mode. Defines whether
Telnet/SSH access is allowed into the switch. Both values can be configured
on one command to allow both access. (the default)





Switch IPv4 Configuration
----------------------------

interface vlan number : Changes context to VLAN interface mode. For VLAN 1,
allows the configuration of the switch's IP address.

ip address ip-address subnet-mask : VLAN  interface mode. Statically configures
the switch's address and mask.

ip address dhcp : VLANN interface mode. Configures the switch as DHCP client to
discover its IPv4 address, mask and default gateway.


ip default-gateway address : Global command. Configures the switch's default 
gateway IPv4 address. Not required if the switch uses DHCP.

ip name-server server-ip-1 server-ip-2 : Global command. Configures the IPv4 
address of DNS server, so any commands when logged in to the switch will use the
DNS for name resolution.




Miscellaneous settings
-----------------------

hostname name : Global command. Sets the switch's hostname, which is also used
as the first part of the switch's command prompt.

enable secret pass-value : Global command. Sets the switch's password that is
required for any user to reach enable mode.

history size length : Line config mode. Defines the number of commands held in
the history buffer, for later recall, for users of those lines.

logging synchronous : Console or vty mode. Tells th IOS to send log messages
to the user at natural break points btwn commands rather than in the middle of
a line of output.

[no] logging console : Global command that disables or enable the display of 
log messages to the console.

exec-timeout minutes seconds : Console or vty mode. Sets the inactivity timeout,
so that after the defined period of no actions, IOS closes the current user
login session.


EXEC Command Reference
-------------------------
show running-config

show running-config | begin line vty

show dhcp lease

show crypto key mypubkey rsa

show ip ssh

show ssh

show interfaces vlan number

show ip default-gateway

terminal history size x

show history


